Updated registration procedure for the 256-9999 range (Addresses #28) (#30)
core-wg/cf-reg-update: draft-ietf-core-cf-reg-update.md

   email: esko.dijk@iotconsultancy.nl

normative:

>   RFC7120:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  RFC7120: iana-early
```

  RFC7252: coap

>   BCP26:
> #   RFC8126:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  BCP26:
    -: iana-cons
    =: RFC8126
```

A new column with the title "Note" has been added to the registry, which contains information about the expected review procedure.

## Expert Review Procedure {#checks}

The Designated Expert is instructed to perform the Expert Review, as described by the following checklist:

1. The combination of content-type and content coding for which the registration is requested must not be already present in the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry;
2. The media type associated with the requested Content-Format must exist (or must have been approved for registration) in the "Media Types" registry {{IANA.media-types}};
3. The optional parameter names must have been defined in association with the media type, and any parameter values associated with such parameter names must be as permitted;
4. If a Content Coding is specified, it must exist (or must have been approved for registration) in the "HTTP Content Coding" registry of the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Parameters" {{IANA.http-parameters}}.

For the 0-255 range, in addition to the checks described above, the DE is instructed to also evaluate the requested codepoint concerning the limited availability of the 1-byte codepoint space.

> For the 256-9999 range and the 10000-64999 range, this criterion does not apply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the 256-9999 range and the 10000-64999 range, a similar criterion may also apply where combinations of media type parameters and content coding choices consume considerable code point space.
```

> For the 256-9999 range and the 10000-64999 range, a similar criterion may also apply where combinations of media type parameters and content coding choices consume considerable code point space.

Reviewer 2: So, with this, I think this can go forward.

| Range | Registration Procedures | Note |
|--------|--------|
| 0-255 | Expert Review | Full review described in {{&SELF}}, {{full-checks}} |
| 256-9999 | IETF Review with Expert Review or IESG Approval with Expert Review | Full review described in {{&SELF}}, {{full-checks}} |
| 10000-64999 (No parameters and empty Content Coding and media type not yet used in this registry) | First Come First Served | The corresponding media type must be registered (or approved for publication) in the "Media Types" registry {{IANA.media-types}} |
| 10000-64999 (Includes parameters and/or Content Coding and/or media type appears in this registry) | Expert Review | Lightweight review described in {{&SELF}}, {{checks}} |
| 65000-65535 | Experimental use (no operational use) |
{: #tbl-new-cf-proc title="Updated CoAP Content-Formats Registration Procedures"}

> The 256-9999 range has now registration procedure IETF Review with Expert Review or IESG Approval with Expert Review. In particular:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 256-9999 range now has registration procedures requiring IETF Review with Expert Review or IESG Approval with Expert Review. In particular:
```

> * All assignments according to "IETF Review with Expert Review" are made on an "IETF Review" basis per {{Section 4.8 of RFC8126@BCP26}} with "Expert Review" additionally required per {{Section 4.5 of RFC8126@BCP26}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All assignments according to "IETF Review with Expert Review" are made on an "IETF Review" basis per {{Section 4.8 of -iana-cons}} with "Expert Review" additionally required per {{Section 4.5 of -iana-cons}}.
```

>   The procedure for early IANA allocation of "standards track code points" defined in {{RFC7120}} also applies. When such a procedure is used, IANA will ask the Designated Expert(s) to approve the early allocation before registration. In addition, working group chairs are encouraged to consult the Expert(s) early during the process outlined in {{Section 3.1 of RFC7120}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The procedure for early IANA allocation of "standards track code points" defined in {{-iana-early}} also applies. When such a procedure is used, IANA will ask the Designated Expert(s) to approve the early allocation before registration. In addition, working group chairs are encouraged to consult the Expert(s) early during the process outlined in {{Section 3.1 of -iana-early}}.
```

> * All assignments according to "IESG Approval with Expert Review" are made on an "IESG Approval" basis per {{Section 4.10 of RFC8126@BCP26}} with "Expert Review" additionally required per {{Section 4.5 of RFC8126@BCP26}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All assignments according to "IESG Approval with Expert Review" are made on an "IESG Approval" basis per {{Section 4.10 of -iana-cons}} with "Expert Review" additionally required per {{Section 4.5 of -iana-cons}}.
```
